---
title: State-Management
date: "2018-11-02"
---
Hello again and thanks for coming back. Lets jump straight into the nitty gritty and start talking about state.

So I've been doing a lot of research on different state management systems recently due to some of the questions I've been asked during the interview process. There is always the classic React versus Redux decision. For me the decision has typically been pretty an easy one. Do I need a global state? If not then I've just stuck with react's setstate() function to handle all of my state management. Mostly due to scale of the project, I've rarely run into a situation where it wasn't fairly simple to just lift the state to a parent component and pass it down via props.

But there are clearly some great uses of the Redux library and I think I've actually been missing out because I didn't have a great understanding of how it all works. I'm starting to gain a clearer picture of when Redux can be a great way to manage the state of your application. As your state tree gets larger and larger, it can become confusing to keep track of the state as it gets passed down through components. Also changing things later on in child components could completely screw up the entire application if you aren't aware of the possible ripple effects throughout the application. This is where the idea of a global store that all the components can access via functions is such a beautiful idea. It makes the components more presentational/functional and leaves all the heavy lifting to middleware. You have actions that change or mutate the state in some way and then reducers that render components for you and react to the changes in the global state. As your application gets larger and larger it keeps things much cleaner. 

I couldn't have named another state management framework if you had asked me a week ago. I think thats one of the great things about this field though, there is always something new to learn. One of my interviewers asked me if I had heard of MobX and I was honest in my answer that I hadn't. I started doing some research and was actually pointed to an awesome video about state management and some of the competing solutions that are available.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZGVwMkrL2n0

Mind Blown......

MobX is a really cool framework in that it handles state in a slightly different way. For starters, it combines the two ideas of react and redux and gives you the ability to have state contained within your components or lifted globally in a store. If I understand it correctly the way it does this is by creating a store for each component and then computing connections between components and mutations of state via a graph DS instead of a tree. By using a graph, MobX is able to have all the components connected and it can detect changes that happen in realted components. However each component has its own store so MobX will only re-render components that have a mutated state. It doesn't have to render the entire graph every time and therefore is quite performant overall. This idea is similar to redux and another fundamental reason that people use redux over react. In redux your reducers react to mutations in the state and only re-render the necessary components, as opposed to react which will render the enitre tree every time there is a change in the state.

My knowledge of the subject still feels quite limited. I'd like to think its like I'm standing on a cliff, about to dive in the ocean, and I'm not sure how deep the water is. I look down and see some others that jumped before me and I know two things going in..... First, I can swim so even if the water is 100 ft deep I can still swim. Just like being able to swim, I have a solid coding foundation and therefore I'm confident I can learn the framework. Second, I'm not the first person to jump. Someone has been here before me and there are plenty of resources for me to look at. No trailblazing needed. Thanks definitely comforting.

If you have any resources that you think I should take a look at please send them my way. I am always looking to learn more about relavent frameworks. Next step is to build something with Redux and MobX to compare the differences. Something simple at first like a todo list just to get my bearings. Keep an eye on my github if you have any interest in keeping up with my progress with state management.

Thanks for reading and until next time. Happy coding.