---
title: Innagural Post - Gatsby.js and other templates
date: "2018-10-29"
---

This is my first post on my new blog! How exciting! Now to bore you with the obligatory intros. My name is Nate and I'm a Full Stack Web Developer that primarily focuses on the frontend side of things. I'm married to my beautiful wife Karin and I have a 6, he'd kill me if I didn't say almost 7, year old son name Noah. I currently live in Orlando, FL and I love Dr. Pepper.

Phew! Got that out of the way and now we can move on to the much more interesting stuff. For this first post I wanted to talk about a few different templating solutions that I have had success using recently and my overall journey to widen my internet footprint as I look for a job as a Frontend Web Developer.

I've been building quite a few basic static sites recently and along the way have found a couple tools that I really wish I had known about sooner. Coming from the veterinary field I never had the need for a personal website and at that time I certainly didn't have the coding chops to make my own, but thats beyond the point. A portfolio site was never even on my radar in that field. Fast forward to the present, as a frontend web developer your personal/portfolio website can make a world of difference when representing yourself on the web. This could be someones first impression of you and I don't need to quote anyone famous for people to know nowadays that first impressions are incredibly important. So I took some time on a weekend and built myself a site using bootstrap.

https://github.com/Nate152/Profile-Page

Initially I was pretty proud of it. Nothing fancy but I had built it from scratch and there is something to be said for that. I purchased a domain and hosted my virtual introduction for the world to see. If I remember correctly I texted my entire family and had them all check it out. It wasn't the first site that I had published to the web or anything, but it was the first site that had my name on it. Nathanielflory.com!! That was a big deal to me and something I was excited to show off. Its easy to simply be complimentary when you don't understand how something works and percieve it to be difficult. Thats the route my family and friends all took and it was nice to ride that high for a little while. And then I showed my mentor.

I meet with my mentor and a group weekly to keep me on the right track in my coding career. He is a former instructor of mine and someone that I admire quite a bit. During our group meeting he suggested to some of the other members to use a templating site, html5up.net, in order to make their portfolio sites. At the time I wrote the info off cause I had my site built and again I was proud of it. Feedback had been overall positive with just a few minor critiques here and there. I was feeling good that I was "ahead of the game" if you will and had already made my site. Early the following week we met one on one and I got the honest feedback that I needed.

He wasn't mean of course, then he wouldn't be a very good mentor, but I could tell that he certainly wasn't impressed. Not like I'd hoped he be or like my support group had been. This is when I realized that I needed to be more realistic about the impression that my portfolio made to not only to technical people, but non-technical as well. I had succeeded in one aspect, the non-technical, but failed to do the other and arguably more important goal. We talked about some suggestions to make it better but I wasn't really satisfied anymore. I knew I could do better.

So I started looking at other options. Rebuild it with react or some other more advanced tech stack? Use some CMS to vomit out another prebuilt design with no real coding involved? None of these seemed like great options. I orginally started looking into Gatsby.js as a possible way to get some open source contributions but I soon started to recognize how it could easily be used for creating a portfolio site. It has all kinds of starter templates that you can use, some that are built by gatsby developers and others that are submitted by users. The design options are vast and gatsby has implemented an entire section of the documentation to these starter templates. You can even filter by specific types of templates such as portfolio pages, e-commerce pages, blogs, etc. Certainly makes it easy to find an appealing design and quickly get it running on your machine. Editing the content can be a little cumbersome and confusing at first but once you get your bearings its very easy to simply navigate to the md files and edit the content accordingly. All of the hard work is essentially done for you. There are some drawbacks to the whole process of course. If you aren't all that familiar with react it can be hard to do more than just alter the content that the template creator exposes. Even changing something as simple as a background image can become much more complicated as props are being passed around everywhere. If you take the time, you can definitely edit anything on the page and make some really awesome projects using the gatsby framework. I think its a really awesome library that makes react more accessible to a wider range of people.

But Gatsby is not what I used to build my portfolio site. Ultimately I wanted to be able to control and edit more of the content on the page without all the react headache. I also felt pressed for time as I was starting the process of applying for jobs and I wanted to have that strong virtual first impression before I even met with someone for an interview. Thats when I remembered my mentor talking about html5up and their templates. These are completely free templates that you can download and customize to your hearts content. Everything is super easy to edit as long as you know html and most of the designs come with a multitude of examples to show the different elements you can use. There are a number of templates to choose from and some of them I even recognized and remembered seeing in the Gatsby starter section. These designs really are beautiful and they already have animations built in to give them that little bit of pizzaz. All of the templates are super polished and did I mention how easy they are to edit? Let me just say it again, its truly a breeze and I was able to put together a great profile page in no time at all. This was definitely the fastest and easiest way (if you can code) to put together an impressive portfolio page to be proud of. I would strongly recommend this route to anyone who wants to quickly get a page up that looks great out of the box.

I think I mentioned it earlier but for those that want to check it out, my page is nathanielflory.com. I have yet to show my mentor but I have a feeling he will like this one a bit better. Feel free to message me on linkedin or through my site if you have any feedback for me. Im always trying to better myself and learn new things.

I'm sure I'll write a lot more interesting things in the future. Until then, happy coding.
